Rails time test helpers (#37)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2019/2019-01-27-replace-timecop-with-rails-time-helpers-in-rspec.md

---
title: Replace Timecop With Rails’ Time Helpers in RSpec
description: You can use the built-in functionality
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2019/replace-timecop-with-rails-time-helpers-in-rspec'
  alt: 'Jean-Claude Van Damme as Max Walker'
  source: ''
  credit: ''
---

Time-sensitive tests can be a pain.

> Thankfully, for many years the `timecop` gem served as a way to “freeze” time and “time travel” during tests, so that any time that elapsed during your tests running did not affect the results.

Reviewer: *during the running of your tests

It’s such a good idea that Rails built very similar functionality into Active Support, [released in Rails 4.1](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v5.0/4_1_release_notes.html#active-support-notable-changes).

## Instead of…

…using `timecop` in your Rails projects:

### `Gemfile`

```ruby
group :test do
  gem "timecop"
end
```

### Your tests

```ruby
describe "some set of tests to mock" do
  before do
    Timecop.freeze(Time.local(1994))
  end

  after do
    Timecop.return
  end

  ### your tests here
end
```

## Use…

…the built-in Rails helpers.

### `spec/support/time_helpers.rb`

```ruby
RSpec.configure do |config|
  config.include ActiveSupport::Testing::TimeHelpers
end
```

### Your tests

```ruby
describe "some set of tests to mock" do
  before do
    travel_to Time.local(1994)
  end

  after do
    travel_back
  end

  ### your tests here
end
```

## But why?

Freezing time can be useful if you ever find yourself testing times or dates used inside your app. As your tests run, real time elapses and this can sometimes lead to tests where the expected result and actual value can be seconds apart.

> Given that Rails has included these helpers, there’s no reason to use `timecop` as you’d be adding a dependancy for functionality you already have provided by the framework.

Reviewer: *dependency

Reviewer: *...functionality that's already been provided by the framework.

### Why not?

> If you’re outside of a Rails application, perhaps writing a gem or using another framework, you won't have Active Support already loaded so `timecop` is still a brilliant choice.

Reviewer: *you won't have Active Support (without 'already loaded' as it's unlikely someone will choose to load in Active Support in this scenario, right?)

Author: "Active Support automatically included with framework" ?

Reviewer: What about: you won't have access to Active Support's functionality

In either case, you need to put a comma before 'so'.

Author: "...you won't have access to these helpers without manually including Active Support, so..." ?

Reviewer: Yup, good 'un.

> Even inside a Rails application you might choose to use the `timecop` gem as it has some slightly enhanced functionality over the Active Support helpers. It contains methods to [change the speed at which time passes](https://github.com/travisjeffery/timecop#timecopscale), which might be useful if your application has some “real” time behaviour.

Reviewer: *_For example_, it contains methods...

Also, you might need to better explain what you mean by ""real" time behaviour." What do you mean? (Just so I can think of a better way to explain it.)

Author: The example from the `timecop` gem is a reasonable. i.e. maybe check something happens automatically (a report is sent) during an hour?

I've never used it like that, but I mostly put forms on websites.

Reviewer: *which my be useful if your application needs something to happen during a specified time period. Need to check an update is sent out within an hour? Well, you don't want to be waiting an hour for your test suite to run!

(Or something in your voice, haha!)

---
title: Replace Timecop With Rails’ Time Helpers in RSpec
description: You can use the built-in functionality
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2019/replace-timecop-with-rails-time-helpers-in-rspec'
  alt: 'Jean-Claude Van Damme as Max Walker'
  source: ''
  credit: ''
---

Time-sensitive tests can be a pain.

> Thankfully for many years the `timecop` gem served as a way to “freeze” and “time travel” during tests, so that time elapsing during your tests doesn't effect the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thankfully, for many years the `timecop` gem served as a way to “freeze” time and “time travel” during tests, so that any time that elapsed during your tests running didn't affect the results.
```

> It’s such a good idea, that Rails built very similar functionality into Active Support [released in Rails 4.1](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v5.0/4_1_release_notes.html#active-support-notable-changes).

Reviewer: - no comma needed after 'idea'.

Reviewer: - comma needed after 'Active Support'

## Instead of…

> …using `timecop` in your Rails projects

Reviewer: - colon after 'projects'.

### `Gemfile`

```ruby
group :test do
  gem "timecop"
end
```

### Your tests

```ruby
describe "some set of tests to mock" do
  before do
    Timecop.freeze(Time.local(1994))
  end

  after do
    Timecop.return
  end

  ### your tests here
end
```

## Use…

> …use the built-in Rails helpers.

Reviewer: - don't repeat 'use' here.

### `spec/support/time_helpers.rb`

```ruby
RSpec.configure do |config|
  config.include ActiveSupport::Testing::TimeHelpers
end
```

### Your tests

```ruby
describe "some set of tests to mock" do
  before do
    travel_to Time.local(1994)
  end

  after do

>     travel_back

Reviewer: Ooh — these are cool!

  end

  ### your tests here
end
```

## But why?

> Freezing time can be useful if you ever find yourself testing times or dates used inside your app. As your tests run, real time elapses and this can sometimes lead tests where values might be (incorrectly) seconds apart.

Reviewer: *real time elapses and this can sometimes lead _to_ tests where the expected result and actual result are (incorrectly) seconds apart.

Not sure about the 'incorrectly' in parentheses here. Isn't it in fact 'correct' because the result takes into account the environment within which the test is running? So if some seconds have elapsed, then they've elapsed...right..?

Author: Totally right.

> Why to use the Active Support functionality over `timecop`?

Reviewer: I would change this and the next paragraph to read something like:

And given that Rails has built in this functionality, there's no reason to use `timecop` anymore since you'd be unnecessarily including features that you already have.

Something that reads a bit better than the above...

Broadly speaking there is a one-to-one mapping between the gem and Rails’ functionality. There’s rarely a need to include duplicate functionality to that built into Rails.

### Why not?

If you’re outside of a Rails application, perhaps writing a gem or using another framework, you won't have Active Support already loaded so `timecop` is still a brilliant choice.

> Even inside a Rails application you might choose to use the `timecop` gem as it has some slightly enhanced functionality over the Active Support helpers. It contains methods to [change the speed of time](https://github.com/travisjeffery/timecop#timecopscale) passing which might be useful if you’re application has some “real” time behaviour.

Reviewer: - either get rid of the word 'passing' or change the link text to read 'change the speed at which time passes'

Reviewer: - add a comma before 'which'.
- *your
